---
slug: algorithm_lab_answer07
title: 'Answer07'
date: 2025-06-04
description: Algorithm_Lab, Answer
---
## Question1: We solve the question by dividing the problem to subproblems both ... What's the difference between them?  
### Ans:  
The ways they handle overlapping subproblems and reuse of soltions.
1. Dynamic Programming: Divides the problem into overlapping subproblems and store the solutions to avoid redundant compution. It is used when subproblems repeat and the solutions has an optimal substructure.
2. Divide and Conquer: Also divides it into subproblems, but these subproblems are usually independent and do not repeat. It solves each subproblems separately, and then combines their results, which means it does mot reuse past results and is suitable when subproblems don't overlap.  


## Question2: Please write a program to calculate how many distinct ways that a team can get exactly $n$ points.  
### Ans:  
```c++
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int countWays(int n){
    if(n<0) return 0;
    vector<int> dp(n+1, 0);
    dp[0]=1;
    for(int i=1; i<=n; i++){
        if(i-2>=0) dp[i]+=dp[i-2];
        if(i-3>=0) dp[i]+=dp[i-3];
    }
    return dp[n];
}

int main(){
    int n;
    cin>>n;
    cout<<countWays(n)<<endl;
    return 0;
}
```


## Question3: Given the broken stairs by $B=\{b_1, b_2, \dots, b_m\}, 1 \le b_1 < b_2 < \dots < b_m \le n$, how many ways can we climb to total $n$ stairs?
### Ans:  
Total steps: $n$, Allowed moves: climb 1 or 2 steps, Forbidden steps: $B = \{b_1, b_2, \dots, b_m\}$ (can't land on these)
$$
f(i) = \begin{cases}0, & \text{if } i \in B \\
1, & \text{if } i = 0 \quad \text{(base case: start position)} \\
f(i-1) + f(i-2), & \text{otherwise} \end{cases}
$$


## Question4: Will sorting $C$ by increasing order improve the performance or not? Why?
### Ans:  
No, sorting C by increasing order does not improve the performance in terms of time complexity. The dynamic programming recurrence depends only on subproblem structure, not the order of coin values.

Sorting may help make the code clearer or slightly improve memory access patterns, but it does not reduce the number of subproblems or change the algorithm’s efficiency. Therefore, sorting is not necessary.


## Question5: Please rewrite above algorithm to a rolling table version. 
### Ans:  
```c++
#include <vector>

int coin_change(const std::vector<int> &C, int m) {
    int dp[2][m + 1] = {0};
    for(int k = 0; k < 2; k++)
        dp[k][0] = 1;
    for(int amount = 1; amount <= m; amount++)
        dp[0][amount] = (amount % C[0] == 0) ? 1 : 0;
    for(int k = 1; k < C.size(); k++) {
        for(int amount = 1; amount <= m; amount++) {
            dp[k % 2][amount] = dp[(k - 1) % 2][amount];
            if(amount >= C[k])
                dp[k % 2][amount] += dp[k % 2][amount - C[k]];
        }
    }
    return dp[(C.size() - 1) % 2][m];
}
```
